# artist - BJ Thomas

## songs
**Hey Won't You Play Another Somebody Done Somebody Wrong Song (1975)** : This song by BJ Thomas was cited as an example of the "sort of country" music prevalent in 1975, akin to Olivia Newton-John's crossover hits. "It's as country as, hey, won't you play another somebody done somebody wrong song by BJ Thomas?" ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 40 - Honestly Loving Olivia Newton-John | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-40-honestly-loving-olivia-newton-john
**Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head** : This pop song from the early 1970s featured a banjo, similar to The Stampeders' "Sweet City Woman." It was included on the soundtrack for the movie *Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid*. "I'm thinking of a raindrops keep falling on my head. That was from BJ Thomas and that was on the Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid soundtrack." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 60 - One-Hit Wonders of the 70s | https://www.ftr70.com
**Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head (1969)** : This song, part of the "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" soundtrack, was the number one song on the Billboard Hot 100 for a month, starting the week ending January 3rd, 1970. It won an Oscar for Best Original Song. Radio stations initially struggled to categorize it due to its unique sound compared to other popular music, and Ray Stevens declined to record it. BJ Thomas recorded the song while recovering from laryngitis, not believing he was at his best, but Burt Bacharach loved the performance. It features in the movie during a scene where Paul Newman, as Butch Cassidy, rides a bike with Catherine Ross. "Rain Drops Keep Falling On My Head by BJ Thomas... It is part of the soundtrack to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 28 - Soundtracks of the 70s | https://seventies.libsyn.com/028-soundtracks-of-the-70s-12221-5-45-pm

## curiosities
**Recording During Laryngitis** : BJ Thomas recorded "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head" while recovering from laryngitis, feeling he was not performing at his best. However, composer Burt Bacharach approved of his take. "Thomas was recovering from Lair and Gytus when he recorded the song. And so he didn't think that he was at his best, but Burke Bacchairac loved it." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 28 - Soundtracks of the 70s | https://seventies.libsyn.com/028-soundtracks-of-the-70s-12221-5-45-pm

