# artist - Mickey Stevenson

## labels
- Motown

## songs
**Playboy (1962) - Co-writer** : Mickey Stevenson, alongside Brian Holland and Robert Bateman, contributed to rewriting Gladys Horton's initial song concept for "Playboy," which became a successful top 10 hit for The Marvelettes. "This time it was Gladys, who came up with a song called Playboy, which Brian Holland, Robert Baigman and Mickey Stephenson rewrote, and which made number 7 on the pop chart and number 4 on the R&B chart." ← Episode 93： ＂Please Mr. Postman＂ by the Marvelettes | https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EPg8Wx30-uM

## curiosities
**Contributing to The Marvelettes' Records** : After the initial success of "Please Mr. Postman," Mickey Stevenson occasionally contributed to The Marvelettes' records, sometimes alongside Smokey Robinson and Marvin Gaye. "But while those records did okay on the R&B chart, they didn't have much success on the pop charts, mostly getting to around number 50. At one point Motown started to wonder if they needed to change things up a little. They put out a single by the group with Gladys and Wonder singing a dual lead, and with the group joined by Motown's in-house backing vocal group The Andantees. The record was put out under the name The Darnells, but was unsuccessful. Unfortunately for them, they missed the chance at a really big hit. Holland, Doge and Holland had written a song for them, but Gladys didn't like it. She thought it was too simplistic, and so they took it to the group who were still known with him Motown as the no-hit Supremes. We'll be looking at Where Did I Love Go in more detail next year. Eddie Holland did co-writer hit for them with Norman Whitfield though, though it wasn't a monster hit like Where Did I Love Go. It did give all the girls a chance to have a solo spot, a rarity for them. They took them back into the top 30 and made the top 5 on the R&B chart. It would be the last hit that they would have with George Anna in the group though. She'd been diagnosed with sickle cell anemia as a child, and the constant strain of touring made her more ill. The tours had been a shock for all of them to be honest. Their first major national tour was the first Motown review in 1962, a tour with a lineup that seems preposterously good these days. All of Motown's major acts and several acts that weren't yet major but soon would be were on the same bill. The miracles, Marywells, the Marvillette, the Temptations, Marv Johnson, Stevie Wonder, the Contours, Marvin Gaye, Martha and the Vandellas, the Supremes and singing Samry Ward." ← Episode 93： ＂Please Mr. Postman＂ by the Marvelettes | https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EPg8Wx30-uM

