# artist - Shel Silverstein

## songs
**A Boy Named Sue (1969)** : Written by Shel Silverstein, this song was famously made into a hit by Johnny Cash in 1969. "He had written the song a boy named Sue which was made into a hit by Johnny Cash in 1969." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a
**Cover of the Rolling Stone (1972)** : Silverstein penned this satirical song about the life of a rock band, which became a hit for Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show in 1972. "Dr hook recorded silverstein satire of the life of a rock band the cover of the rolling stone." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a
**Sylvia's Mother (1970)** : Shel Silverstein wrote this song, which became a surprise hit for Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show in 1970. "He was also the writer for dr hook in the medicine show." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a

## curiosities
**Diverse Career** : Shel Silverstein had an incredibly diverse career, publishing and illustrating *The Giving Tree*, drawing numerous cartoons for *Playboy* magazine, writing hit songs like "A Boy Named Sue," and authoring "Where the Sidewalk Ends." "I cannot think of too many writers who had a career as diverse as shell silverstein." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a
**Pirate-like Appearance** : Silverstein was known for his distinctive appearance, which included an eye patch due to an accident, making him look somewhat like a pirate. He even lived on a houseboat for a period. "He kind of looked like a pirate in race lawyer who wore an eye patch because of an accident that damaged his eye." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a
**Writer for Dr. Hook** : He served as the primary writer for Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show. "He was also the writer for dr hook in the medicine show." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 44 - Streaking, Werewolves, Sharks, & Drinking - 70s Novelty Songs | https://traffic.libsyn.com/seventies/334334714-44100-2-e5ed6adac25ea.m4a

