# artist - Three Dog Night

## members
- Corey Wells
- Other two unnamed lead singers

## genres
- Funk
- Pop
- R&B
- Rock
- Soul

## songs
**Black And White (1972)** : This song was one of three number one hits for Three Dog Night. "Including three number ones, black and white in 1972, joy to the world in 1971, and their very first number one, also the very first number one on American top 40, Mama told me not to come." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Eli's Coming** : This song was made into a hit by Three Dog Night, written by Laura Nyro. "The band is also notable for making hits out of songs for some notable songwriters, like Paul Williams. He wrote old-fashioned love song and Laura Nero wrote Eli's coming and Randy Newman wrote Mama told me not to come." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Joy To The World (1971)** : This song was one of three number one hits for Three Dog Night. "Including three number ones, black and white in 1972, joy to the world in 1971, and their very first number one, also the very first number one on American top 40, Mama told me not to come." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Mama Told Me Not To Come** : This song was the very first number one song on American Top 40 and also the first of three number one singles for Three Dog Night. Originally written by Randy Newman, the band's version, sung by Corey Wells, was described as "funky" and conveyed a sense of character who was not at all upset about being at a wild party, contrasting with Newman's more earnest original. Newman initially disliked their interpretation but appreciated the subsequent royalty checks. Corey Wells cited Otis Redding, Sam and Dave, and Al Green as his favorite singers, an R&B influence evident in the song. "Their very first number one, also the very first number one on American top 40, Mama told me not to come." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Never Been To Spain** : This song was one of ten Top 10 singles for Three Dog Night between 1968 and 1973. "Ten top 10 singles between 1968 and 1973, like old-fashioned love song, never been to Spain." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Old Fashioned Love Song** : This song was one of ten Top 10 singles for Three Dog Night between 1968 and 1973. It was written by Paul Williams. "Ten top 10 singles between 1968 and 1973, like old-fashioned love song, never been to Spain." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Shambhala (1973)** : Released a week after B.W. Stevenson's version, Three Dog Night's rendition of "Shambhala" became a much bigger hit, peaking at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1973. This version significantly overshadowed the original. "Number three on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1973." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 49 - Austin City Limits and the 70s Country Music Revolution | http://ftr70.com

## curiosities
**Co-hosts of First New Year's Rockin' Eve (1972)** : Three Dog Night served as the co-hosts for the inaugural production of Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve in 1972. They performed their song "Celebrate" as the very first musical offering of the special. "Dick Clark's New Year's Rock and Eve was first produced in 1972 with co-hosts Three Dog Night." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 47 - Dick Clark's Entertainment Empire | https://www.ftr70.com/
**First Song on American Top 40** : Three Dog Night holds the distinction of having their song "Mama Told Me (Not To Come)" played as the very first track on the radio show American Top 40 with Casey Kasem. "Three Dog Night had the distinction of having the first song played on American top 40 with Casey Kasim, Mama told me not to come." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 47 - Dick Clark's Entertainment Empire | https://www.ftr70.com/
**Hit Machine (1968-1973)** : Three Dog Night established themselves as an early "hit machine" with ten Top 10 singles between 1968 and 1973, including three number one hits. They were also known for successfully recording songs by notable songwriters like Paul Williams, Laura Nyro, and Randy Newman. "This band was an early hit machine. Ten top 10 singles between 1968 and 1973." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Three Lead Singers** : A somewhat unusual characteristic of Three Dog Night was their lineup featuring three lead singers. Corey Wells, one of these vocalists, was instrumental in convincing his bandmates that "Mama Told Me Not To Come" had hit potential. "One thing that's a bit unusual about three dog night is that they had three lead singers." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1
**Vocal Influences of Corey Wells** : Corey Wells, a lead singer for Three Dog Night, informed Ben Fong Torres of Rolling Stone in 1972 that his favorite singers were Otis Redding, Sam and Dave, and Al Green. These R&B influences were audibly present in the band's music, such as "Mama Told Me Not To Come." "He told Ben Fong Torres of Rolling Stone in 1972 that his favorite singers were Otis Redding, Sam and Dave and Al Green. You can hear that. You can hear the 60s R&B influence in this song." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 39 - American Top 40 - Keeping Our Feet on the Ground and Reaching for the Stars (Part 1) | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-39-american-top-40-keeping-our-feet-on-the-ground-and-reaching-for-the-stars-part-1

