# artist - Andy Gibb

## members
- Barry Gibb (backup vocals, co-writer)
- Joe Walsh (guitar on specific tracks)

## labels
- RCA

## albums
**Flowing Rivers (1977)** : Andy Gibb recorded his debut album in the same Miami studio where The Eagles were recording "Hotel California." He specifically aimed for "Flowing Rivers" to emulate the sound of "Hotel California," and some Eagles influence can be heard in the song "In the End," though his hit singles ultimately bore a strong resemblance to Bee Gees albums. "Andy said he wanted his flowing rivers album to sound like Hotel California." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop

## songs
**I Just Want to Be Your Everything (1977)** : This was Andy Gibb's first number-one single. Written by his brother Barry Gibb, with Joe Walsh contributing guitar, it was part of a successful trio of debut hits that brought happiness to many, especially adolescents. "His first three singles went to number one. I just want to be your everything, 1977." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**In the End (NA)** : A song from his debut album, "Flowing Rivers," which Andy Gibb specifically noted as demonstrating an influence from The Eagles, despite his hit singles sounding more like Bee Gees albums. "Go check out a song called In the End, and you know what? I can hear a bit of Eagles influence in there." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Love Is Thicker Than Water (1977)** : This song became Andy Gibb's second number-one pop hit, reaching the top of the charts on March 4, 1978, which coincided with his last day as a teenager. Barry Gibb wrote the main part of the song, with Andy contributing the "thicker than water" portion of the title, and Barry also provided backup vocals. Joe Walsh played guitar on the track, which critics like Tom Bryan noted as hinting at the sound of the 1980s with its synthesizers and guitar work. "Love is thicker than water. That one takes me back. That song hit number one on the last day of Andy Gibb's teenage years on March 4, 1978." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Our Love (Don't Throw It All Away) (1978)** : This song was a Top 10 contemporary of Gino Vannelli's "I Just Wanna Stop," sharing a similar musical style. "Our love don't throw it all away by another gib Andy." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 45 - Oh, Canada! Canada's Rock Music Industry in the 70s | https://www.ftr70.com/
**Shadow Dancing** : This song held the number 1 position on the Billboard Hot 100 for six weeks, preventing Gerry Rafferty's "Baker Street" from reaching the top spot due to alleged record label maneuvers. "unable somehow to knock shadow dancing by Andy Gibb out of the number 1 slot on the Billboard Hot 100" ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 38 - The Influence of Jazz on 70s Popular Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-38-the-influence-of-jazz-on-70s-popular-music
**Shadow Dancing (1978)** : This song became Andy Gibb's third consecutive number-one single, completing a remarkable hat trick of debut hits that solidified his status as a teen idol. "And shadow dancing 1978 made a lot of people especially adolescents happy." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop

## curiosities
**Alleged Chart Manipulation by RCA** : There is a legend that Andy Gibb's record label, RCA, allegedly threatened not to allow him to participate in a Billboard show if "Shadow Dancing" was not kept at number 1. This alleged interference is cited as the reason why Gerry Rafferty's "Baker Street" remained at number 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 for six weeks. "RCA, Andy Gibb's record label allegedly threatened to not let him take part in some sort of billboard show If shadow dancing was not still number 1" ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 38 - The Influence of Jazz on 70s Popular Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-38-the-influence-of-jazz-on-70s-popular-music
**Desire to Be the Fourth Bee Gee** : Andy Gibb at one point expressed a willingness to give up his solo career to become the fourth member of The Bee Gees, although the sincerity of this statement was questioned. "I'm not sure if Andy meant it when he said he was willing to give up his solo career to be the fourth Bee Gee or not." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Family Connection to The Bee Gees** : Andy Gibb benefited from being the brother of the Bee Gees, who were "Billboard top 40 giants" and dominated the charts, giving him a significant advantage in the music industry. He also bore a strong resemblance to a young Barry Gibb. "if you were going to have brothers in the music industry, I don't think you could have done any better than being the brother of the Bee Gees." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Later Career Challenges and Independence (Early 1980s)** : By the early 1980s, Andy Gibb was no longer a teen idol and struggled to sell records. He also dated Victoria Principal, a star from the popular TV show "Dallas." During this period, he voiced a desire for independence from his brothers' influence, stating he wanted to "do his own thing" and no longer wanted Barry to produce his records. "But for a while it lasted, he was one of the biggest stars in the music world. He said that he and his brother made music that was happy." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Personal Milestones Concurrent with Success (1978)** : Just weeks after his song "Love Is Thicker Than Water" hit number one on his last day as a teenager (March 4, 1978), Andy Gibb became a father and then divorced, marking a tumultuous period in his personal life. "In a few weeks, Andy would be a daddy. In a few weeks after that, he would be divorced." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop
**Recording with Joe Walsh** : While recording his debut album "Flowing Rivers," Andy Gibb had Joe Walsh of The Eagles play guitar on two of his hit songs, "I Just Want to Be Your Everything" and "Love Is Thicker Than Water." "Joe Walsh is willing to play on I just want to be your everything and love is thicker than water. You don't say no, right?" ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 34 - A 70s Pop Manifesto - Finding Meaning in 70s Pop | https://seventies.libsyn.com/ep-34-a-70s-pop-manifesto-finding-meaning-in-70s-pop

