# artist - Don Kirshner

## curiosities
**Creation of The Archies** : After The Monkees refused to record "Sugar Sugar," Kirshner, determined to make the song a hit, created the fictional cartoon band The Archies who would "not talk back" and "just do what I tell them to do." "So Kirschner said you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to create a fictional band that will not talk back to me. They will just do what I tell them to do. And that is partially how the Archies were born." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 30 - The Sweet Sound of 70s Bubblegum Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/030-bubblegum
**Creator of Midnight Special** : Don Kirshner was the creator of *The Midnight Special*, a late-night music program that provided viewing pleasure for rock and pop fans in the 1970s. "Don Kirschner who you may recall created the Midnight Special for late night music viewing pleasure of rock and pop fans in the 70s..." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 30 - The Sweet Sound of 70s Bubblegum Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/030-bubblegum
**Creator of The Monkees** : Don Kirshner was responsible for creating The Monkees, a band formed for a television show. "...also created the monkeys." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 30 - The Sweet Sound of 70s Bubblegum Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/030-bubblegum
**Perseverance with "Sugar Sugar"** : Kirshner faced initial resistance from radio DJs to play "Sugar Sugar" by The Archies, but his persistence led him to a DJ in Texas who eventually played the song, causing it to become a massive hit. "It did take some convincing by Kirschner to get any radio DJ to play it. It was not that this was a bad song. In fact anyone who has ever heard pop music can hear this is a hit. It was just that it was by the Archies. The way Kirschner tells it he finally got a DJ in Texas to play it one time and he did and then all the calls came in requesting the song and the rest as they say was history." ← For the Record - The 70s > Ep. 30 - The Sweet Sound of 70s Bubblegum Music | https://seventies.libsyn.com/030-bubblegum

